{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 what is a file?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 collection of data\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}a container in a computer system for storing something in a format\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Anything stored on a disk\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Meta Data --> data about data\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
       2.    what is a file system?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A collection of files that are used to persist data\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A process of managing how and where data is stored.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
       3.  what is data?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 collection of information\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}facts and figures\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
       4.  what is a database?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A container where data is stored.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A collection of related tables\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} A mean to operate on data\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A repository for storing data\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
       5.   Types of database:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Relational database: Tables and association between them, stored in tabeular form, related to each other\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Non Relation database : collection of documents , data stored in documents, not related to each other\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
       6.   DBMS VS RDBMS:\par
\tab DBMS:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Collection of databases and application programmes that are used to create and maintain multiple databases\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab RDBMS:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A Software thats used to maintain database that store data in the form of tables\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A database which mostly follows normalization principles.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\par
     7.  What \b is Database model\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 An abstract overview\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Emphasizes on what data is required and how it should be structured\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
     8. Types of database models and this \b is the order in which database gets designed\b0 :\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Conceptual model\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 What you system should contain\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}shows entities and associations between them\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1        2\b .     Logical Model\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 How the system should be implemented regrardless of DBMS/RDBMS\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}shows entities and associations between them and attributes\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1        3. \b Physical Model\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 shows entities and associations between them and attributes and along with data types and sizes\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
        At this point The database will be \b in Un-normalized form.\par
\b0\par
       9. What is \b Normalization\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A process of eliminating duplicates and avoiding loopholes / flaws in a database design(like redundat data).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Embraces more number of tables.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}suggests to not to hesitate decomposing tables.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
       10. Types of Normalization:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b 1NF \b0 --> \b Each cell should contain a single value\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}2NF\b0  --> must satisfy 1NF and then intoduce primary key.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b 3NF\b0  --> must satisfy 2NF and then creating relationships and introduce PK and FK\tab\tab\tab\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1       \par
       10. what is \b de-normalization\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 its a process of reducing the number of tables to ensure the simplicity of queries.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Also improve the performance of querying.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Data warehouse follows de-normalization principles.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\b UNF VS De-normalization\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 UNF \b doesnt follow any normalization principle \b0 where de-normalization follow \b maximum 2NF\b0 .\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
What is a \b transaction\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A single unit work\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}An Activity which has a complete lifecycle(start-end)with success or failure\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}In terms of database, activity performed on a database like queries.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\b ACID\b0  principles:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 set of principles that a database must guarantee even in the event of error, power failure etc.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Four Principles:\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Atomicity\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 If  a transaction is initiated by an application, it must execute it as a single operation.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab eg : Transfer funs form account A to account B -->\par
\tab\tab first transaction:\par
\tab\tab\tab update Account A: current Amount - 200\par
\tab\tab second transaction:\par
\tab\tab\tab update account B@ current amount + 200\par
\tab\tab it shouldnt run as two seperate transactions\par
\tab start transaction:\par
\tab\tab update Account A: current Amount - 200\par
\tab\tab update account B@ current amount + 200\par
\tab end transaction\par
\par
\tab 2. \b Consistency\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Transaction must be consistent by any means\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}propagating/cascading the changes made by transaction\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab 3. \b Isolation\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Transaction must be executed in an isolated environment, it ensures no conflict\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab 4. \b Durability\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Transaction results must be stored/persisted to ensure that the result can  accessed in the future\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\par
\tab\b what is EF Codd rules \b0 ? (research afternoon)\par
\tab\par
\tab What is \b SQL\b0 ?\par
\tab\tab Structured Query Language\par
\tab\tab used for perform CRUD operations and retreive information from database\par
\tab SQL commands:\par
\tab --> \b DDL\b0   - Data Definition Language\par
\tab\tab These commands deal with the structure of database objects,\par
\tab\tab ie database, tables, users, indexes, sequences\par
\tab\tab List of commands:\par
\tab\tab\tab CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE\par
\tab --> \b DML\b0  - Data Manipulation Language\par
\tab\tab These commands deal with actual data of table \par
\tab\tab Mainly used to implement CRUD operations\par
\tab\tab List of command:\par
\tab\tab\tab SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE, INSERT\par
\tab --> \b DCL\b0  - Data control Language\par
\tab\tab Deal with adminstrative stuff like access control\par
\tab\tab List of commands:\par
\tab\tab\tab GRANT, REVOKE\par
\tab --> \b TCL \b0 - Transaction control language\par
\tab\tab Deals with database transactions\par
\tab\tab List of command:\par
\tab\tab\tab COMMIT - Stroring changes permanently\par
\tab\tab\tab ROLLBACK - undo \par
\tab\tab\tab SAVEPOINT - Restore point\par
Ques)can we rollback a transaction after we have commited it?\par
Ans) No we can only ROLLBACK a transaction that is not commited yet\par
\par
Ques) what is difference between \b DELETE \b0 and \b TRUNCATE\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 DELETE give option to use WHERE, but TRUNCATE doesnt give you option to use WHERE\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DELETE maintains transaction logs which can be used to restore or ROLLBACK the deleted data, but TRUNCATE deletes data permanently, not logs stored.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
DEMO \par
\tab mysql -u <username> -p\par
\tab - Write a Query to show database:\par
\tab\tab SHOW databases\par
\tab - Write a query to create a new database\par
\tab\tab CREATE <object> <object name>\par
\tab\tab eg : CREATE database employee_information\par
\tab - Write a query to connect sql server to our database:\par
\tab\tab USE employee_information\par
\par
Entity represents real word object.\par
Any entity will have atleast one attribute.\par
\par
What is \b ERD\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Entity relationship diagram\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b0 visual representation of a database\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}overview of how each entity is related to another.\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1      Types of Relationship\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 1 to 1\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}1 to Many\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}many to one\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}many to many\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1       \b what is key\b0 ?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 used to identify unique records in a table\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}to establish relationships between tables\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1       Types of key:\par
\tab\b primary key:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 used to identify unique records\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} every row must have a primary key\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} no two rows can have the same primary key\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\b foreign key:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 An attribute in a table which is used to define the relationship with another table.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\b composite key\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 any key with multiple unique attributes.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}its combining two unique attributes into one unique attribute which is \tab called composite key.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\b unique key\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 allows null value.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}unique key must be unique attribute and used when there is no primary key\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\b surrogate key\b0 :\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 artificial key that is used when there is no primary key, or when there is no key to access data records.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}its a new key that we create, not created from existing attribute.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\tab\par
\tab\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\tab\par
       \par
\par
\tab\par
\par
\par
}
 